# Beyond Redux and MobX

So far, the book has taught you different approaches of state management. Whether you are using React, an alternative view layer library or a sophisticated SPA library; most of them will come with a built-in solution to deal with local state. The book has shown you React's local state management and demonstrated approaches to scale it in plain React applications. Afterward, you learned extensively about Redux as sophisticated state management library. It can be used in combination with any view layer or SPA library. The book has taught you how to use it in React applications, too. As alternative to Redux, you read about MobX as sophisticated state management library. It comes with its own advantages and disadvantages. After all, Redux and MobX give you two different approaches to opt-in sophisticated state management to your application. However, you should never forget about your local state management solution to keep your state coupled to your components rather than exposing it globally in your entire application.

What else could you use for state management in modern JavaScript applications? There is another solution that should be mentioned in the book: GraphQL. [GraphQL](http://graphql.org) itself hasn't anything to do with state management. It is used on the server-side to expose an API with its well defined query language. When having a server application which exposes a GraphQL API instead of a RESTful API, a client application can consume it. So how does this fit into state management then? Since GraphQL has well defined constraints, there are GraphQL client libraries which a specifically designed to consume a GraphQL API. These libraries often come with their own state management implementation but also powerful features such as pagination, caching and normalization. Everything that you had to implement on your own when consuming a RESTful API, can be achieved with those GraphQL client libraries. When using such a library when having a GraphQL server, you often don't need to worry anymore about managing the state which comes from a remote API. React's local state, Redux or MobX can be used mostly for the view state only then. Everything else is managed by the GraphQL client library. So I encourage you to research these solutions when you feel confident with the learnings from this book. Checkout [my courses](https://roadtoreact.com) if you find something about GraphQL there.
