## How to read the Book

Stop beating about the bush! No one learned programming by just reading a book. Programming is about hands on experiences. It is about conquering challenges to grow in the long term. No one learned a programming paradigm, such as functional programming, in the short term. No one learned a concept, such as state management, on a weekend. No one learned yet another library, such as React and Redux, over one night. You will learn things only when you deliberatly practice them.

In the book I want to give you these hands on experiences and challenges to grow. The challenges are meant to create a flow experience, a scenario where the challenge meets your skills and tools at hand. Otherwise you would feel overwhelemed or bored. When the book accomplishes to keep this balance of challenges and your level of skill, you might experience a [state of flow](https://www.robinwieruch.de/lessons-learned-deep-work-flow/). That would be the perfect outcome.

The book follows the central theme of state management in modern applications. It starts with local state management in a view library (React), points out the problems of it in scaling applications and will lead over to sophisticated state management solutions such as Redux and MobX. While you read the book, you will find Code Playgrounds that illustrate problems and solutions. I encourage you to play around with these Code Playgrounds to have a hands on experience. You can even try to apply these code snippets in your own editor to play around with them. But don't worry if it doesn't work out. You will be guided in other chapters to apply your learnings in an editor. However, don't hesitate to apply the learnings earlier on your own.

As mentioned, there are guided hands on experiences in the book. These chapters in between are called "Hands On" chapters. There you will be guided to solve problems by using the techniques you have learned in the previous chapters. You will solve these problems in an online editor, that is already prepared, or in your own editor. It should give you the experience of applying the learnings beyond only reading a book.

Last but not least, there are "Challange" chapters. There you will be confronted with a challenge and a handful of hints to solve it. The way to solve the challenge or the solution itself are not revealed in this book. However, if you have bought the course, you can get the solution as fully working project or even see me guiding you towards the solution in a screencast. TODO

Be aware that the online editor, [JS BIN](http://jsbin.com/), that you are going to use occasionally, will not always provide all functionalities from modern browsers. For instance, you might run into problems when you try to apply JavaScript ES6 and beyond functionalities. That's why I try to transition as soon as possible to an own project setup in your editor. There you have the full control over your projects and can continue working on them even after you have read the book.

In addition, make sure to internalize each lesson learned before you continue with the next chapter. The book is written in a way that the learnings build up on each other. Your knowledge around state management will not only scale horizontally by using different techniques but also vertically by using technique on technique. That's why it is important to internalize each learning before your continue to read.

The library that is used as view layer to demonstrate the usage of state management is React in this book. However, a view layer is fortunately exchangeable. If you are learning state managemtn to apply it to another view layer library, such as Vue, you can try on your own to substitute React with Vue. The book doesn't want to dictate the view library. If you are brave, you can apply the learnings while reading the book in your very own application where you want to introduce state management.

Another hint is to make notes while you read the book. You can write down questions where the book doesn't give you an answer and look them up afterward. Or you can write down your learnings to internalize them. That is how I do it when I read a book. Last but not least, if you write down feedback about the feedback, you can send me your notes afterward on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/rwieruch). I am highly interested to improve the book all the time to keep the quality up.

It should be obvious by now that you will have the best outcome of this book by having a laptop on your side. You can join the [Slack Channel](https://slack-taming-the-state.wieruch.com/) to get help from others or to help others yourself. When having a laptop on your side, you can directly apply your new learnings and confront yourself with the "Hands On" and "Challenge" chapters. As mentioned before, no one learned it by just reading a book.
