State management in applications got a popular topic in the past years. Single page applications (SPAs) - that are only delivered once from a backend - have to establish state management in the frontend. They have to keep the page consistent without making any more requests to the backend. It already starts when you want to open a popup in your application or retrieve data from your backend. Someone has to be aware of this state. But who is it? Who is it that manages the state?

jQuery was a popluar library before the first SPA solutions like Angular, Ember and Backbone appeared. State management itself wasn't a huge problem in jQuery in the beginning, because the library was most often only used for selective DOM manipulations. You could add animations to your HTML, add or remove DOM nodes or change the style of your HTML dynamically.

Eventually the jQuery code, and in general the portion of JavaScript code compared to HTML and CSS grew, and people wrote more sophisticated frontend applications. Most of the time it ended up in a mess of jQuery code where not only state management was a problem, but also general best practices like clean code were missing. There was no solution for the general architecture of these kind of frontend applications and people stuggled to keep it maintainable.

After a while, SPA solutions like Angular, Ember and Backbone got popular to give these sophisticaed frontend applications a proper framework. The term single page application was born. Even though these solutions established best practices, patterns and architectures for the first generation of SPAs, state management was still a reoccuring issue. Every framework tried to apply solutions, most of the people came up with there own best practices, but it was never consistent and sophisticated. There was one major problem with these SPA solutions: They were frameworks and no libraries. They tried to solve too many issues at once.

The second generation of SPA solutions, like React and Vue, focused only on smaller parts of the application. They focused on the view layer. [That's what made React such a powerful library in the first place](https://www.robinwieruch.de/reasons-why-i-moved-from-angular-to-react/), because everyone could decide to extend the application with libraries that solve specific yet small problems.

Now a miriads of articles and libraries try to solve to issue of state management, establish opinionionated constraints and establish and improve best practices, patterns and libraries around it.

But why did it get popular in the first place?