# Local State Management

This chapter will guide you through state management in React without taking any external state management library into account. You will revisit state management in React with only `this.setState()` and `this.state`. It enables you to build medium sized applications without complicating and over-engineering it. It is important to remember this statement: Not every application needs external state management in the first place. I can tell you from experience that many companies out there went all in with React and Redux, only to recognize that they didn't need Redux for their application. It didn't have the complexity to introduce external libraries for it. React's state management would have been sufficient.

By revisiting the topic of local state management in React, you will get to know how to use the local state for React applications which don't need a state management library such as Redux. The chapter guides you through important topics when dealing with state in React: controlled components, unidirectional data flow and asynchronous state. It will teach you all these necessary topics before diving into state management with an external state management library.

After revisiting the local state in React, you will get to know best practices and patterns to scale your state management when using only local state. Even though you are not dependent on external state management solutions yet, you can use a handful of those techniques to scale state management with external libraries, too, which are described later on in this book.

At the end of the chapter, you will get to know the limits of local state management in React. The topic itself is highly discussed in the community as you will learn in one of the final lessons of this chapter. The chapter concludes in the problem of local state management to give you a motivation to dive into one of the external state management solutions.